## Definition
It is the washing of a place where najasah or khabathah has come out of.

## Hukm
It is not permissible to show the awrah when performing istinja when you are in a place that is open.

if there is more than 4.044 grams worth of najasah, then it becomes lazim, not only wajib, to clean this before you are able to pray.

The best way of purifying is water, and what we use as toilet paper they used to use with stones. The best is a combination between the two i.e. water and toilet roll/stones. Only using water is 2nd best.

It is okay to expose ones awrah when you are in a private place to do istinja.

It is not permissible to do istinja with a bone because it is what the jinn eat.

It is not permissible to do istinja with food.

It is not permissible to use honoured things such as the right hand.

One should seek protection in Allah when entering the toilet.

Dua for when entering the toilet:

(بِسْمِ اللَّهِ). اللَّهُـمَّ إِنِّي أَعُـوذُ بِـكَ مِـنَ الْخُـبْثِ وَالْخَبَائِثِ.

(Bismil-lah) allahumma innee aAAoothu bika minal-khubthi wal-khaba-ith

(In the name of Allah). O Allah, I take refuge with you from all evil and evil-doers.

He should not speak unless there is a reason for him to speak.

Facing the Qiblah is impermissible when urinating/defacating. Same with doing istinja.

It is also disliked to face the sun and the moon as they are two of the great signs of Allah.

It is also disliked to urinate in flowing water. If the water is still and small, then this is a sin.

Urinating under a tree that bears fruit is disliked.

Urinating when standing is disliked unless there is a reason since its possible to get stained with it.

It is good adab to go in the toilet with the left foot, and leaving with the right foot. This is to avoid dying and falling into the toilet.