## How to perform Wudoo?
Wudoo is built up of 4 pillars:
1. Washing the face - from the top of the forehead where the hair starts and down to the chin bone.
2. Washing the hands including the wrist bone. Imam Abu Yusuf differed on this and did not include the wrist or the ankle but this is a minority opinion.
3. Washing the feet up to and including the ankle. Including the ankle is good to wash. [Imam Abu Yusuf](Ilmul%20rijaal/Imam%20Abu%20Yusuf.md) does not include the ankle either.
4. Rubbing with water of at least a quarter of the head. It is better to go over the whole of the head out of precaution. Hasan al Basri would say it is required to do the full head.

## What is the reason for performing Wudoo?
It permits something that is usually not permitted to do, such as:
- touching the mushaf
- performing salah
And the reason for it in the akhirah is for reward. However, you should have the intention of wudoo to earn this reward.

## What obligates wudoo?
You have to be a mukallaf - you are spoken to by the shari'ah:
1. Having full intellect
2. Reaching puberty
3. Being a Muslim
4. Enough water to do the minimum of wudoo
5. Their wudoo is broken and is required for salah
6. Not menstruating
7. There is time - even if you know you will miss the prayer
There is no water to make wudoo with, then wudoo is not obligated, instead [Tayammum](Fiqh/Nur%20al-idah/Kitab%20at-taharah/Tayammum.md) will be performed.

It is from the adab of a good muslim to always be in a state of wudoo.

## The conditions of validity of Wudoo
There are 3:
1. That you washed the skin of all the places that need to be washed with purifying water
2. There is no Hayd coming out as it will be instantly broken
3. There is nothing on the skin that keeps the water from reaching it i.e. painted nails 

## Rulings of wudoo
1. It is fard to wash the beard, if the beard is full such that the skin cannot be seen, then wash what is apparent
2. It is fard to wash the skin of the beard when the beard is not that thick
3. It is not obligatory for wash the hair that grows outside of the roundness of the face i.e. neck hair
4. Whatever is not apparent on the face is not obligatory i.e. the eye sockets, inner part of the lips
5. If there is something on the nails that prevents water from reaching it, its obligatory to remove
6. Dust under the nails do not prohibit you from a valid wudoo
7. if they wear a tight ring, he is to remove it, as per the sunnah
8. He is permitted to push water over the medication on his body if it is infected etc.
9. You do not wipe over the head more than once
## Sunnahs of wudoo
1. Wash hands up to the wrists at the start of the wudoo
2. saying tasmiyah before the wudoo (bismillah)
3. Utilising the siwaak (using siwaak or a finger if not available multiplies the salah x70 in reward)
4. Gargling water (madmadah) unless you are fasting
5. 